RHDEVDOCS-5508: Configuring OpenShift Builds (#63337)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/ob-defining-the-output.adoc

// This module is included in the following assembly:
//
// shipwright-builds/configuring-openshift-builds.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="ob-defining-the-output_{context}"]
= Defining the output

In your `Build` CR, you can specify an output location to push the image. When using an external private registry as your output location, you must specify a secret to access the image. You can also specify the annotations and labels for the output image. 

[NOTE]
====
When you specify annotations or labels, the output image will get pushed twice. The first push comes from the build strategy and the second push changes the image configuration to add the annotations and labels. 
====

The following example defines a public registry where the image will be pushed:

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: shipwright.io/v1beta1
kind: Build
metadata:
  name: s2i-nodejs-build
spec:
  source:

>     url: https://github.com/shipwright-io/sample-nodejs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    git:
      url: https://github.com/shipwright-io/sample-nodejs
```

    contextDir: source-build/
  strategy:
    name: source-to-image
    kind: ClusterBuildStrategy

>   builder:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  paramValues:
  - name: builder-image
    values: docker.io/centos/nodejs-10-centos7```

>     image: docker.io/centos/nodejs-10-centos7

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  output:
    image: image-registry.openshift-image-registry.svc:5000/build-examples/nodejs-ex
----

The following example defines a private registry where the image will be pushed:

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: shipwright.io/v1beta1
kind: Build
metadata:
  name: s2i-nodejs-build
spec:
  source:

>     url: https://github.com/shipwright-io/sample-nodejs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    git:
      url: https://github.com/shipwright-io/sample-nodejs
```

    contextDir: source-build/
  strategy:
    name: source-to-image
    kind: ClusterBuildStrategy

>   builder:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  paramValues:
  - name: builder-image
    values: docker.io/centos/nodejs-10-centos7
```

    image: docker.io/centos/nodejs-10-centos7
  output:
    image: us.icr.io/source-to-image-build/nodejs-ex

>     credentials:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    pushSecret: icr-knbuild
```

>       name: icr-knbuild

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

----

The following example defines annotations and labels for the image:

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: shipwright.io/v1beta1
kind: Build
metadata:
  name: s2i-nodejs-build
spec:
  source:

>     url: https://github.com/shipwright-io/sample-nodejs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    git:
      url: https://github.com/shipwright-io/sample-nodejs
```

    contextDir: source-build/
  strategy:
    name: source-to-image
    kind: ClusterBuildStrategy

>   builder:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  paramValues:
  - name: builder-image
    values: docker.io/centos/nodejs-10-centos7
```

    image: docker.io/centos/nodejs-10-centos7
  output:
    image: us.icr.io/source-to-image-build/nodejs-ex

>     credentials:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    pushSecret: icr-knbuild

// This module is included in the following assembly:
//
// builds/configuring-openshift-builds.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="ob-defining-the-output_{context}"]
= Defining the output

In your `Build` CR, you can specify an output location to push the image. When using an external private registry as your output location, you must specify a secret to access the image. You can also specify the annotations and labels for the output image. 

[NOTE]
====
When you specify annotations or labels, the output image will get pushed twice. The first push comes from the build strategy and the second push changes the image configuration to add the annotations and labels. 
====

> The following example defines a public registry where the image will be pushed:

Reviewer 2: Future->Present

> [source,yaml]

Reviewer 2: Just a suggestion, but you can also include YAML files in snippets. I just got the suggestion to do this myself a few weeks back, so thought I'd pass it along: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#embedding-a-local-yaml-file

Author: @skrthomas, as far as i know, creating a snippet file is useful only if you want to mention it in mutiple modules or at multiple instances within a documentation. All the config examples in this PR are distinct and different and would not reused anywhere. This is why i do not see any use of moving the yaml examples into a snippet file.

----
apiVersion: shipwright.io/v1beta1
kind: Build
metadata:
  name: s2i-nodejs-build
spec:
  source:
    git:
      url: https://github.com/shipwright-io/sample-nodejs
    contextDir: source-build/
  strategy:
    name: source-to-image
    kind: ClusterBuildStrategy
  paramValues:
  - name: builder-image
    values: docker.io/centos/nodejs-10-centos7
  output:
    image: image-registry.openshift-image-registry.svc:5000/build-examples/nodejs-ex
----

> The following example defines a private registry where the image will be pushed:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example defines a private registry where the image is pushed:
```

// This module is included in the following assembly:
//
// shipwright-builds/configuring-openshift-builds.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="ob-defining-the-output_{context}"]
= Defining the output

In your `Build` CR, you can specify an output location to push the image. When using an external private registry as your output location, you must specify a secret to access the image. You can also specify the annotations and labels for the output image. 

[NOTE]
====
When you specify annotations or labels, the output image will get pushed twice. The first push comes from the build strategy and the second push changes the image configuration to add the annotations and labels. 
====

The following example defines a public registry where the image will be pushed:

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: shipwright.io/v1beta1
kind: Build
metadata:
  name: s2i-nodejs-build
spec:
  source:
    git:
      url: https://github.com/shipwright-io/sample-nodejs

>       contextDir: source-build/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    contextDir: source-build/
```
@shipsing the contextDir option falls within spec.source . So, the indentation should be like:

~~~
...
spec:
  source:
    git:
      url: <value> 
    contextDir: <value>
~~~

We might need to update this for all the similar examples (using contextDir).

  output:
    image: image-registry.openshift-image-registry.svc:5000/build-examples/nodejs-ex
----

The following example defines a private registry where the image will be pushed:

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: shipwright.io/v1beta1
kind: Build
metadata:
  name: s2i-nodejs-build
spec:
  source:
    git:
      url: https://github.com/shipwright-io/sample-nodejs
      contextDir: source-build/
  strategy:
    name: source-to-image
    kind: ClusterBuildStrategy
  paramValues:
  - name: builder-image
    values: docker.io/centos/nodejs-10-centos7
  output:
    image: us.icr.io/source-to-image-build/nodejs-ex
    credentials:
      pushSecret: icr-knbuild
----

The following example defines annotations and labels for the image:

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: shipwright.io/v1beta1
kind: Build
metadata:
  name: s2i-nodejs-build
spec:
  source:
    git:
      url: https://github.com/shipwright-io/sample-nodejs
      contextDir: source-build/
  strategy:
    name: source-to-image
    kind: ClusterBuildStrategy
  paramValues:
  - name: builder-image
    values: docker.io/centos/nodejs-10-centos7
  output:
    image: us.icr.io/source-to-image-build/nodejs-ex

>     credentials:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>       pushSecret: icr-knbuild

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    pushSecret: icr-knbuild
```
`pushSecret` replaces the `credentials.name` section completely. So, the format should be like:
~~~
...
output:
  image: <value>
  pushSecret: <value>
~~~
